# avalanche-network-runner-local

Tool to run and interact with an Avalanche network locally

## Overview

Golang Library to interact with an Avalanche network from a user client software. The network
is local to the use machine, that is, it consists of different OS processes for different nodes.

All functions are race free, so can be executed from concurrent user software.

The configuration for each node can partially specified, by using genesis file, config file, cchain file, cert/key file, etc. Other parts are automatically generated by the library.

Files are automatically generated by the library based on given []byte contents.

Automatically generated items:
- api port of the node
- staking port of the node
- reference to bootstrap nodes (by using IsBeacon field in config)
- cert/key contents if not given.
- files for genesis, config, cchain conf, cert/key, from []byte fields
- paths for those items, alongside logs dir

### Network creation

A network can be created from a specification of the starting nodes on it, including
the special case of cero nodes. Then subsequent nodes can then be added. 

```
func NewNetwork(log logging.Logger, networkConfig network.Config, nodeTypeToBinaryPath map[NodeType]string)
```

It takes a `network.Config` as defined in `github.com/ava-labs/avalanche-network-runner-local/network`, which
is a list of `node.Config` as defined in `github.com/ava-labs/avalanche-network-runner-local/network/node` and
`github.com/ava-labs/avalanche-network-runner-local/local`.

Node fields common to all backends (local,k8s):

- *Name*: reference name for the nodes. if not given, it is generated.
- *IsBeacon*: indicator that the node is going to be a bootstrapper for the other nodes in the network. at least one node should be bootstrapper.
- *StakingKey*: key file contents for the node. if not given (and also cert should not be given), it is generated.
- *StakingCert*: cert file contents for the node. if not given (and also key should not be given), it is generated.
- *CChainConfigFile*: c chain config file for the node. optional.
- *ConfigFile*: config file for the node. should be defined.
- *GenesisFile*: genesis file for the node. should be defined.

Node fields specific to local backend (ImplSpecificConfig)
- *Type*: kind of node, one of the values on NodeType (currently AVALANCHEGO, BYZANTINE). a map is given on network creation (nodeTypeToBinaryPath), that specifies the node binary to execute, depending on the contents of this field.
- *Stdout*: optional. writer to which to associate the standard output of the node.
- *Stderr*: optional. writer to which to associate the standard error of the node.

### Network manipulation

Functions used to change the nodes in the network, get information from the them, wait the network to be ready, and stopping it.

Waiting the network to be ready means waiting until the nodes are functional, ready to do user operations. To be called after network creation, it may be called also after adding more nodes.

```
func (*localNetwork) AddNode(nodeConfig node.Config) (node.Node, error) 
func (*localNetwork) RemoveNode(nodeName string) error 
func (*localNetwork) Healthy() chan error 
func (*localNetwork) GetNode(nodeName string) (node.Node, error) 
func (*localNetwork) GetNodesNames() ([]string, error) 
func (*localNetwork) Stop(ctx context.Context) error 
```

### Node interaction

A given node, obtained from `GetNode()` can be queried for its name and avalanchego id. 

```
GetName() string
GetNodeID() ids.ShortID
GetAPIClient() api.Client
```

`GetAPIClient()` give access to all subyacent avalanchego apis:

```
PChainAPI() *platformvm.Client
XChainAPI() *avm.Client
XChainWalletAPI() *avm.WalletClient
CChainAPI() *evm.Client
CChainEthAPI() *EthClient 
InfoAPI() *info.Client
HealthAPI() *health.Client
IpcsAPI() *ipcs.Client
KeystoreAPI() *keystore.Client
AdminAPI() *admin.Client
PChainIndexAPI() *indexer.Client
CChainIndexAPI() *indexer.Client
```

In particular, EthClient is a wrapper over ethclient websocket that add mutexed calls, and lazy connection init (on first call).


## Demo example

The demo starts a local network with 5 nodes, waits until the nodes are healthy, prints their names, then stops all the nodes.

It assumes you have the AvalancheGo v1.6.4 binaries at `$GOPATH/src/github.com/ava-labs/avalanchego/build`

Clone:

`https://github.com/ava-labs/avalanche-network-runner-local` to `GOPATH` (expected location: `$GOPATH/src/github.com/ava-labs/avalanche-network-runner-local`)

```
GO111MODULE=off go get github.com/ava-labs/avalanche-network-runner-local
```

Execute example:

```
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/ava-labs/avalanche-network-runner-local
go run examples/local/main.go
```

## Unit testing

To verify status of the library, execute:

```
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/ava-labs/avalanche-network-runner-local
go test ./...
```

